# Service Provider Overview

Laconic Network is a web3 services and data marketplace that gives users and developers a robust alternative to existing centralized web and RPC services. It matches these users and developers with Service Providers (SPs) via mutually agreed upon preferences (e.g., jurisdiction, type of service, duration).

In traditional Proof of Stake chains, the operator business model is running a validator and earning commission from staking rewards. Laconic Network is instead a Proof of Authority chain, where every validator has an equal stake[^1] and there are no staking rewards. Validators earn 4% of the total Network Fees. The genesis validator set will be selected from a jurisdictionally diverse set of LORO Testnet top-performing participants.

A core value proposition of Laconic Network is supporting the business activities of SPs. SPs earn the remaining 96% of Network Fees, and in return provide reliable services to customers of the marketplace. Laconic Network aggregates a variety of available compute across many jurisdictions, and supports SP business activities with seamless payments and a legal framework for compliance in any jurisdiction[^2]. 

For end users and developers, the Laconic Network provides high quality, attributable, and auditable web3 services for their entire application stack. From source code to RPC nodes to DeFi front ends, our hypothesis is that these features will generate strong network effects and ultimately benefit all users of web3. 

## Business Status and Opportunity

- We have existing customers for RPC traffic and the goal is to transition this and other traffic (e.g., Snowball) to SPs, ahead of network launch.  
- The Laconic Foundation would like to contract with select SPs that have completed KYC and are keen to continue participating in ongoing testnet and mainnet.  
  - These contracts would be for additional LNT separate from any testnet allocations. **Please fill out [this form](https://forms.gle/cvXLvohvFteLH45LA) to provide us with more information about your setup.**  
- For SPs with rackspace available, we have numerous machines that are currently being provisioned to support workloads for the Laconic Network. We are seeking interested SPs to rack this hardware in a variety of jurisdictions. 

## SPs’ Revenue Overview

SPs earn fees in two ways:

1. Deploying and hosting DeploymentRequests.  
   a) Auctions for service is another feature in development; SPs will also be able to easily configure the parameters for which requests they want to deploy  
2. For every byte served from a hosted deployment.  
   b) Using nitro payment channels, deployed services can be configured to require payment per byte of traffic served.  
   c) This allows SPs to effectively monetize traffic to any service they are hosting.

## Feature Roadmap

1. [Blind Insight](https://www.blindinsight.com) for end user KYC  
   a) Users can attest that they are from a certain jurisdiction.  
   b) With FOAM/OWL they can even attest that they are *in* a certain jurisdiction.  
2. Auctions for service  
   a) SP set their preferences and (automatically) submit bids based on the information in an ApplicationDeploymentRequest.  
3. New deployer APIs for services other then webapps  
   a) The webapp deployer API addressed the low hanging fruit. New APIs are planned (but not being actively worked on).  
      
Note: the Laconic Registry is very flexible, it is possible to publish any new (correctly formatted) record type.

## Snowball, Caddy, Watcher Parties

- Snowball works on the testnet ([link](https://staging.snowball.build)); it can quickly deploy ApplicationRecords and ApplicationDeploymentRequests. However, it doesn’t return correct deployment URLs or logs, as it is designed for a single known Service Provider.  
- This is actually the correct implementation because the solution to load balancing services on the Laconic Network involves caddy and watcher parties; this development work is ongoing.  
- We welcome an open source version of Snowball that allows users to connect via Laconic Wallet and easily submit ApplicationDeploymentRequests.

## Upcoming testnets

- LNT total supply is 129,600, of which 10% (12,960 LNT) is allocated for incentivized testnets. The LORO testnet allocates 3.33% (4320 LNT) with the majority (3720 LNT) going to SPs.  
- The second testnet will involve bespoke tasks (see below).  
  - We will keep this current testnet going and rebalance the stake to validators that have completed KYC.  
- The third testnet will test:  
  - Snowball, caddy, watcher parties  
  - Features on the roadmap (see above)  
  - Nitro bridge and payment channels (try [here](https://git.vdb.to/cerc-io/testnet-laconicd-stack/src/branch/main/testnet-nitro-node.md))

## Second Testnet Tasks

Contributions for these tasks will be judged on a case by case basis; submit evidence of task completion in Discord. More tasks to come.

1. Deploy a Sepolia node and register an RpcDeploymentRecord  
   a) 500 points  
2. Enhanced app store  
   a) 200 points  
3. Develop additional deployer APIs with cryptographic integrity checks  
   a) 800 points

### Examples of Task 3

1. Deploy Gitea: [link to stack instructions](https://git.vdb.to/cerc-io/stack-orchestrator/src/branch/main/stack_orchestrator/data/stacks/package-registry)  
   a) RepositoryDeploymentRequest	  
   b) NpmPackageDeploymentRequest (with [LavaMoat](https://lavamoat.github.io) integration)

   c) DockerImageDeploymentRequest  
   d) ActRunnerDeploymentRequest  
      - [Link to act stack instructions](https://git.vdb.to/cerc-io/stack-orchestrator/src/branch/main/stack_orchestrator/data/stacks/act-runner)  
2. IPFS Deployment
   a) FileHostingRequest  
3. Other interesting services, e.g.,  
   a) MinecraftServerDeploymentRequest

[^1]:  For governance; each validator gets one equally weighted vote.

[^2]:  KYC/KYB provides a baseline; Proof of Location improves attestability. For illegal content, we make it simple to comply with a takedown notice.

