# Testnet Update - November 26th 2024

Since the last update, we’ve progressed with development in preparation for the launch of a user facing product that will simplify publishing webapps to the Laconic Network. In service of launching this product, we’re focused on testing and bug fixes for the foreseeable future.

Following successful KYC of most Service Providers, we’ve met individually with all those that filled out [this form](https://forms.gle/NE5y9KiS3wnicdH7A). Testnets will remain open to everyone, however, these select Service Providers will be invited to contract with the Laconic Foundation. In doing so, they will earn additional LNT and provide SLA uptime guarantees to users of the Laconic Network.

Note: Over 10 SPs were excluded for Sybil activity. Several others are unresolved for various reasons and we are committed to address those individually in the future.

For simplicity, we are transitioning to a new testnet that was initialized with state from the old testnet. Those that wish to continue participating should follow these steps.

## Sunset the LORO testnet
The following things can be shutdown:
- All webapp deployments
- Webapp deployer api
- Validator
- Sepolia nodes
    - These will be needed in the future when testing the Eth → Laconic bridge
    - Points were allocated in testnet 2 for having completed this task

Note: If you maintained uptime via your k8s cluster on these deployments for significant time past the end of testnet 1, and consider that this isn’t reflected in the points tally (for testnet 2), please submit evidence and a case for allocation in testnet 2. New Task 9 will address these contributions.

## Migrate to SAPO testnet
- [Join as Validator](https://git.vdb.to/cerc-io/testnet-laconicd-stack/src/branch/main/testnet-onboarding-validator.md#upgrade-to-sapo-testnet)
    - With 1000000000000000000 alnt (1 LNT) self-delegated
- [Update Service Provider infrastructure](https://git.vdb.to/cerc-io/testnet-laconicd-stack/src/branch/main/service-provider.md#update-service-provider-for-sapo-testnet)
    - Currently, the low amount of SPs would bottleneck any influx of active users to the Laconic Deployer.

## New Tasks
Additional tasks for testnet 2 are [now available](https://github.com/LaconicNetwork/loro-testnet/pull/61).

## New place for issue reporting
For any issues with setting up infrastructure or using any component of the Laconic Network stack, please open an issue in this repo: [https://github.com/LaconicNetwork/issues](https://github.com/LaconicNetwork/issues)
